Apple unveils new media-focused products at "Show Time" event
 (Xinhua)    08:10, March 26, 2019
	Apple unveiled a slew of new media-related products including news and the world's first game subscription service for both mobile and desktop users at a long-awaited "Show Time" event Monday at its Cupertino headquarters in California.
	Apple said subscribers to its Apple News+ service can enjoy personalized access to more than 300 popular magazines, leading newspapers and digital publishers within the Apple News app that is available in the United States and Canada.

Photo from Apple's website
	The Apple news service includes top newspapers such as The Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, and Canada's Toronto Star, as well as magazines such as The Atlantic, TIME and National Geographic.
	"We're committed to supporting quality journalism, and with Apple News+, we want to celebrate the great work being done by magazines and news outlets," said Lauren Kern, editor-in-chief of Apple News.
	Apple said customers must update to iOS 12.2 or macOS 10.14.4 to sign up for Apple News+ for 9.99 U.S. dollars in the United States and 12.99 dollars in Canada each month.
	Also at the "Show Time" event, Apple announced Apple Arcade, a game subscription service for iOS-based video games for users of mobile, desktop and the living room.
	With this service, Apple users will have all-inclusive and unlimited access to more than 100 new and exclusive games, which will all be available offline across any Apple device.
	Apple said the games will include releases from renowned creators worldwide like Hironobu Sakaguchi, Ken Wong, SEGA Games Co., and Will Wright. The new titles will have no ads, ad tracking or extra purchase costs, with guaranteed protection of user privacy.
	"Apple Arcade games will be great for families, respect user privacy and will not have ads or require any additional purchases," said Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Marketing.
	Apple said Arcade will launch this fall in more than 150 countries from a new tab on the App Store across iOS, macOS and tvOS.
	Apple said its newly introduced credit card service, Apple Card, will come with a rewards program that allows users to earn cash back by spending via Apple Pay.