Govt funding directed to help vocational training
 (China Daily)    10:54, May 01, 2019

	Trainees learn culinary skills at a vocational school in Linxia county, Gansu province, last year, as a part of the county's poverty alleviation efforts. [Photo/Xinhua]
	China will use 100 billion yuan ($14.7 billion) from the surplus of the Unemployment Insurance Fund for the improvement of vocational skills and will expand enrollment at vocational colleges by 1 million this year, the State Council's executive meeting chaired by Premier Li Keqiang decided on Tuesday.
	Maintaining employment is crucial for steady economic performance this year, and large-scale vocational training is key to that, attendees at the meeting agreed.
	"The 100 billion yuan fund and 1 million enrollment expansion plan are key measures to ensure stable employment and sustain high-quality growth," Li said. "Currently, we face employment pressure in terms of both high demand for jobs and structural mismatches in the job market. To promote high-quality development, we must first improve the educational level of our workers and instill a sense of professionalism and workmanship in them."
	The country will open up over 15 million training opportunities this year and over 50 million within three years. Such training will target skilled workers, and accommodate the needs of key groups of people for employment and those having difficulty landing jobs. It will tilt in favor of quality vocational colleges, high-demand disciplines and poverty stricken areas.
	Separate enrollment plans will be made for demobilized military personnel, rural migrant workers and modern professional farmers.
	"The government must encourage companies to pay more attention to employee training and collaborate with vocational colleges in such training. This is of great significance for our future development," Li said.
	The recent workplace safety accidents all involve violations of safe operation procedures, showing that there is still much to be desired in the professional competence of their employees, Li said.
	"High caliber workers are the backbone for achieving high quality development."
	Companies, especially micro and small enterprises, will be encouraged to carry out vocational training, and training of safety skills for workers in dangerous industries will be intensified.
	The government will also encourage vocational schools to expand enrollment, and support companies in providing vocational training.
	Private institutions will enjoy the same treatment as their publicly run counterparts in the procurement of government services.