Spotlight: Two-year mark of global community towards a shared future
 (Xinhua)    08:13, January 21, 2019
	BEIJING, Jan. 19 -- Two years ago, Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered a speech at the United Nations (UN) Office at Geneva, calling for joint efforts to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
	Two years on, the appeal, which represents a vision of common development and progress, has gained wide support and helped form synergy among the international community in pursuing a better shared future.
IN HARMONY WITH ALL
	"China has been a strong pillar of multilateralism," said UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, highlighting that the aim of multilateralism is to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
	Over the past two years, the appeal by the Chinese leader has been incorporated into various documents, including UN Security Council resolutions, UN Human Rights Council resolutions, the Qingdao Declaration of the Council of Heads of Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, Forum on China-Africa Cooperation Beijing Action Plan (2019-2021).
	The Chinese proposal, with its foresight and wisdom, has witnessed tremendous changes across the globe and resonated with people's longing for peace and development.
	As China hosted a number of significant diplomatic events at home and Chinese leaders paid visits to other countries, the idea of building a community with a shared future has been increasingly accepted worldwide.
	"It is a common ideal for mankind to build a world without conflicts, one with equal development opportunities and every people in it blessed with happiness," said Yasuo Fukuda, former Japanese prime minister.
ACTIONS
	In 2018, China launched the China International Import Expo in Shanghai which attracted over 3,600 companies from around the world and more than 400,000 Chinese and foreign buyers. Deals for intended one-year purchases of goods and services worth a total of 57.83 billion U.S. dollars were reached at the six-day event.
	The China-initiated Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) celebrated its third anniversary in December. Over the past three years, the investment bank has approved financing worth 7 billion U.S. dollars for development projects in Asia and Africa, with the aim to promote sustainable economic development through investment in infrastructure.
	In July 2018, the China-Maldives Friendship Bridge, the first ever cross-sea bridge in Maldives, was completed. The bridge is deemed one of the landmark projects of the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).
	In fact, nearly 170 countries and international organizations have signed BRI-related cooperation documents with China.
	The BRI is a manifestation of China's vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, said John W. Allen, former vice chairman of the UN Business Council.
FUTURE OF HOPE
	China's General Administration of Customs said recently the country's foreign trade rose 9.7 percent year on year to a record high of 30.51 trillion yuan (about 4.5 trillion U.S. dollars) in 2018.
	Official data also show China's FDI hit a record 885.61 billion yuan (134.97 billion dollars) last year.
	The numbers have demonstrated China's resilience after 40 years of reform and opening up, even at a time when unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise.
	In April 2018, Xi announced a series of new measures for expanding China's reform and opening up, demonstrating China's willingness to work with the outside world.
	The new initiatives include easing foreign shareholding restrictions in the industries of automobile, ship and aircraft, and implementing the management system based on pre-establishment national treatment and negative list.
	Over the past two years, China has been promoting innovation and improving inclusive development amid external uncertainties. On such issues as the Korean Peninsula situation, the Syrian crisis and UN peacekeeping operations, China is committed to safeguarding peace and stability.
	According to Gai Lin, secretary-general of the EU-China Friendship Group of the European Parliament, the future of mankind will surely involve bringing together nations for a world of cooperation. Building a community with a shared future is undoubtedly the best option for safeguarding world peace and promoting development.