China, India strengthen military cooperation to combat terrorism
 (CNTV)    11:00, December 17, 2018
	A joint military training between the Chinese and Indian military is underway in Chengdu, the capital city of southwest China's Sichuan Province.
	Code-named "Hand-in-Hand 2018," the drill aims to strengthen their capabilities in responding to terrorism.
	"During this training, the troops are regrouped into mixed teams. This will help both sides get familiar with each other's tactical skills, training methods and command procedures," Zhou Jun, head of the Chinese command group, told CGTN.
	During the two-week military exchange, the trainees are scheduled to take part in a variety of subjects, including rope-bridge crossing, slithering, cordon and search, and combat firing, among other subjects.
	"This combat firing experience has given the opportunity to both sides to enhance their combat firing skill and their experiences to undertake the counter-terrorism operation in the joint environment. Moreover, in order to achieve the synergy, the coordination and the cooperation between the two armies, we have fired each other's weapons," said Atual Yadav, a trainee from the Indian army.
	Li Yuhong, a participant from the Chinese side, said he has achieved a lot over the past few days from the training, which started on December 11.
	"Through this exchange with our Indian counterparts, I have improved a lot in tactics and some essential skills over the past few days. I feel more confident now," said Li, who has been in the army for about seven years.
	This is the seventh counter-terrorism joint training between the Chinese and Indian armies since 2007, and the first one since the two countries' border dispute last year. It is a concrete step to implement the consensus reached between leaders of the two countries.
	During their four meetings this year, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated their willingness to strengthen cooperation in various fields.
	At the border talks also held in Chengdu on November 24, both countries agreed that the consensus reached between the leaders of the two countries should be implemented among the two peoples, including frontline troops.
	The two armies hail this drill as a significant step to push forward more exchanges.
	"This particular exercise, as in the past, will further our ability to operate jointly, learn from each other and finally achieve friendship between both armies," said Puneet Pratap Singh Tomar, head of the Indian command group.
	Zhou Jun echoed him, saying that the two sides have great teamwork and get along well with each other. The interaction has brought them closer.
	The training will last until December 23.