Exhibition of Chinese traditional craft innovation opens in London
 (Xinhua)    13:29, May 10, 2019
	LONDON, May 9 (Xinhua) -- An exhibition of traditional craft innovation of China's Zhejiang Province on Wednesday opened in London's Asia House, fusing Chinese traditional craft with the power of innovation.
	Organized by the Zhejiang Provincial Department of Culture and Tourism, the Zhejiang Traditional Craft Innovation exhibition is a part of the fifth London Crafts Week and will last for four days.
	According to the organizer, the exhibition is based on the design and interpretation of five traditional materials, namely bamboo, wood, silk, copper and china. It presents designs which demonstrate the innovation and power of Chinese traditional craft, with the aim of deepening understanding of the local culture of eastern China's Zhejiang Province in Britain and Europe, as well as encouraging an exchange of creative and cultural ideas.
	A fashion show is also staged at Asia House on Wednesday night, showing the audience the beauty of Chinese clothing techniques.
	The clothes worn by the models combine traditional Chinese elements with modern fashion trends, redefining the charm of traditional Chinese costumes, integrating traditional art into modern life, and giving the classic culture a new radiance, which has won warm applause from the audience.
	Wang Shenghong, designer of the show, said he believes art and culture is unbounded because the Internet has broken the boundary. "I feel that the Chinese and Western cultures will gradually merge in the future, and the integration will become more and more exciting, and more and more comfortable to all people," he said.
	After watching the exhibition and show, Irish architect and designer Angela Brady told Xinhua she loves the designs and thinks the colour is the workmanship and fashion style. "I think it's quite unique and special and that's what makes this Chinese but also international and appeals people like me," she said.
	Brady said collaboration between China and Ireland could be achieved through art and design craft. "I've worked in China as an architect on projects there and I've worked with Chinese people. And I can see we can come together in a very companionable way and I see this now through design craft."
	The fifth London Craft Week opened Wednesday in London, ushering in a five-day celebration of global creativity. More than 240 makers, designers, brands, artists and galleries from 15 countries participated in the event, offering the public a packed program of exhibitions, hands-on workshops, talks, creative experiences, and one-off events.
	According to the organizer, Zhejiang Province has always been committed to inheriting and developing excellent traditional craft and promoting the re-inheritance and re-design of traditional craft, which has the same goal with London Craft Week.