Foreign Media Tour kicks off to explore a smart Tianjin Binhai New Area
 (People's Daily Online)    10:45, May 20, 2019
	Tianjin, May 20 (People's Daily Online) -- The "Belt and Road Media Tour to Tianjin Binhai New Area, the Maritime Gateway for Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei" kicked off on May 20. Co-organized by the Publicity Department and Cyberspace Administration of CPC Binhai New Area Committee as well as People's Daily Online Tianjin branch, the two-day tour will see foreign journalists from Belt and Road countries explore the smart seaside city.
	In the wake of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) and the Third World Intelligence Congress (WIC), the tour was held to present a modern, prosperous and smart Binhai New Area to the world through its technological advancements, cultural attractions and Belt and Road construction achievements.
	On the afternoon of May 20, the media delegation will visit Tianjin Binhai Zhongguancun Science Park, National Marine Museum and China-Singapore Friendship Library. Journalists will also dine in the X Future Unmanned Restaurant.

Tianjin Binhai-Zhongguancun Collaborative Innovation Exhibition Center (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	The Tianjin Binhai-Zhongguancun Science Park, founded in November 2016, was jointly built by Beijing and Tianjin as a way for the two cities to thoroughly implement the major national strategy of coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei area. As of April 2019, 1,113 new companies had been registered, with the registered capital totaling over 11.4 billion yuan (about 1.65 billion US dollars).
	Looking forward, the park will continue to encourage innovation and pursue coordinated development by attracting industrial resources and high-end talents, give full play to the leading role of Zhongguancun brand and strive to stand as an example of the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei area.

The National Maritime Museum (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	The National Maritime Museum covers 23,000 square meters, with a main three-story building and four-story sub-buildings. Themed on "Ocean and Human", the exhibition is divided into three parts, namely "Marine Humanity", "Marine Nature" and "Marine Ecology". By systematically displaying the co-existence of the Earth, ocean, life and humans, it reveals the harmonious relationship of humanity and the sea and gives the public more information about the ocean, to help better protect it.

The X Future Restaurant (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	The X Future Restaurant is the first smart restaurant run by jd.com, an e-commerce giant. Through intelligent ordering and payment, intelligent cooking robots, food delivery robots as well as other smart devices, it has achieved intelligent catering services, bringing a customized and diversified dining experience to customers.

The China-Singapore Friendship Library (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	The China-Singapore Friendship Library, also known as the China-Singapore Tianjin Eco-city Library and Archives, is a key construction project between the governments of China and Singapore and a major livelihood project of the Eco-city. The library has five floors, covering an area of 35,000 square meters and a total gross floor area of 67,000 square meters. The ultimate collection of the library will contain 1.5 million books and 1 million archives, and it currently shelves 370,000 books and 110,000 archives with more than 2,000 seats. The library is equipped with a Singapore Section, a Children Eco Library, a multimedia service area, a newspaper and periodicals reading area, an archives service hall and an archive exhibition hall.
	On May 21, the delegation will visit Tianjin Julong Jiahua Investment Group Co., Ltd., Tianjin Port Sunlon Food International Trading Co., Ltd., Tianjin International Cruises Homeport, Dongjiang Bay Beach and Binhai New Area Cultural Center.

Tianjin Julong Jiahua Investment Group Co., Ltd. (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	Tianjin Julong Jiahua Investment Group Co., Ltd., headquartered in Tianjin Binhai New Area, is a transnational palm oil enterprise. Its business covers oil crops cultivation, oil and fat processing, port logistics, trade, Rï¼†D, packaged oil promotion and financial service. It boasts the largest domestic market share of 22 percent in China's palm oil trade among all domestic enterprises. In the future, Julong Group will establish three business platforms in the Asia-Pacific region, Africa and America by stepping up its palm plantation in Southeast Asia, developing the palm base and food crop base in Africa and laying out soybean and oil plant bases in South America.

Tianjin Port Sunlon Food International Trading Co., Ltd. (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	Tianjin Port Sunlon Food International Trading Co., Ltd. operates a wide range of products, including meat, aquatic products, fruits, food, alcohol, dairy, nuts and other packaged snacks. It also provides multi-functional services such as food import and export, customs clearance, freight forwarding, warehousing, logistics, distribution, sales and supply chain finance. The company has set up a global supply chain service system featuring multiple categories, multi-functions and one-stop service. It is committed to providing safe, cheap and high-quality food to the convenience and benefit of the people.

Tianjin International Cruise Homeport (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	Tianjin International Cruise Homeport covers an area of 1.2 million square meters. It is scheduled to become a cruise port city that includes port logistics, tourism, entertainment, business office buildings and high-end residence. By 2018, 745 arrivals of luxury cruise ships had been recorded, with a passenger throughput of 3.5 million. In the first quarter of 2019, it received 26 cruises, up 52.9 over the same period of last year. Among them, 18 were homeport cruises, an increase of 28.6 percent year-on-year, while eight were visiting cruises, up 126.6 percent year-on-year.

Tianjin Dongjiang Bay Beach (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	Tianjin Dongjiang Bay Beach is the largest man-made beach in China. It is the only coastline composed of sea and beach in the Beijing and Tianjin region. The beach is made up of 150,000 cubic meters of sand and 70,000 cubic meters of pebbles, and the thickness of sand is up to 80 centimeters. A 3-kilometer-long jetty surrounds the eastern boundary, with a 150-meter-long gate in the middle. The beach is 2 kilometers long and 170 meters wide, with a total area of 2.46 square kilometers. The sea area covers 1.5 square kilometers, including 0.36 square kilometers for the yacht club.

Binhai New Area Cultural Center (Photo/tj.people.cn)
	Binhai New Area Cultural Center consists of "five pavilions and one corridor". Five interconnected cultural venues enrich the life of local people. Binhai New Area Library, with the reputation of "the most beautiful library", is not to be missed due to its beautiful decoration and futuristic design. 