Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations to open on May 15
 (Xinhua)    09:08, May 10, 2019

Aerial photo taken on Nov. 6, 2018 shows the scenery of one scenic area in Jiuzhai Valley in southwest China's Sichuan Province. China will hold the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations starting from May 15. Under the theme of "exchanges and mutual learning among Asian civilizations and a community with a shared future," the conference includes an opening ceremony and sub-forums. (Xinhua/Liu Kun)
	BEIJING, May 9 (Xinhua) -- China will hold the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations starting from May 15, a senior official said Thursday.
	Under the theme of "exchanges and mutual learning among Asian civilizations and a community with a shared future," the conference includes an opening ceremony and sub-forums, said Xu Lin, director of the State Council Information Office, at a press conference.
	More than 2,000 government officials and representatives of various circles from 47 Asian countries and other countries outside the region will attend the opening ceremony and forums, said Xu, also vice president of the event's executive committee.
	A grand Asian culture carnival, an Asian civilization week, and an Asian food festival will also be held during the event.
	The culture carnival is expected to gather around 30,000 people from home and abroad, according to the official.
	The Asian civilization week features parades, cultural performances, a culture and tourism exhibition, a film week, and a joint exhibition of Asian civilizations.
	The food festival will be held in four cities: Beijing, Hangzhou, Guangzhou, and Chengdu.
	So far, more than 2,800 Chinese and foreign journalists have signed up to cover the conference. And Beijing has recruited more than 3,700 volunteers for the event, figures from the organizer show.
	The conference is expected to reach rich and concrete results, such as a series of bilateral and multi-lateral initiatives and agreements, and the results of projects and research will also be announced during the conference, Xu said at the press conference.